# CSS 101
## CSS Rules
- A block of CSS code that applies properties to a selection of elements is
  called a "rule".
- A rule is made up of a "selector" and one or more property declarations.
- The selector specifies the set of elements the rule applies to.
- A property declaration is made up of a property name and one or more property
  values.
- Each property declaration ends with a semicolon
- The list of property declarations goes between curly braces (i.e. `{ }`)

### Example

```css
div > a // selector
{
  border-color: red;
  // property: value;
  // Also, the whole line is a "rule"
}

::before { } // pseudoelement
:hover { } // pseudoclass

// Muliple selectors for a group of rules

a:hover,
a:active {
   color: chartreuse;
}
```

## Other Notes
- CSS can be written inside a `<style>` tag inside the `<head>`, but it's best
  practice to put CSS in an external file and link to it using `
- To select the elements of a certain HTML tag, the selector is just the tag
  name (e.g. `p { }`)
- Many CSS properties are inherited. For example, if I set `font-size: 62.5%;`
  on the `<body>` element, then all the elements on the page that don't override
  `font-size` will inherit that font size.
- To find out whether a property is inherited by its children, look up the
  property on MDN (or Dash.app)

## CSS inheritance and specificity
- CSS can be overriden by declaring a property farther down the "cascade".
- The highest priority rules are "inline", i.e. defined on the `style` attribute
  of a element. This is almost never a good practice to do in your HTML, but is
  often useful when manipulating styles from JavaScript.
- Styles in a `<style>` tag have lower priority than inline styles.
- Styles in an external CSS file have lower priority than `<style>` rules
- You can also override properties by writing a more specific rule. E.g.
  `.my-link` is more specific than `a`, and `a.my-link` is most specific.
- The article [CSS Specificity: Things You Should
  Know](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2007/07/27/css-specificity-things-you-should-know/)
  gives an overview of specificity rules.
- A class can be added to an element with the `class` attribute.
- Use a `.` between the element name and the class name to select the elements
  of that tag and class.
- Use `.classname` to select all elements of that class.
